[The Legend of Rosy Clouds]
[Episode 23]
Oh, right, Your Excellency,
There's one more thing.
Say it then.
Regarding the plague,
There are rumors spreading around.
People say...
That I am the cause of it.
That's pure nonsense.
Just nothing more than mud-slinging.
Don't be bothered by it.
I know that too.
However,
Being in engulfed in suffering, the people
Are far less rational than we expect.
What are you trying to say?
I'm trying to say
That if...
I mean, if the time really comes
When Your Excellency has to make a choice,
Do remind yourself of our original intention.
If all the people can be saved
By sacrificing me alone,
-don't let your heart get in the way... -Stop it.
Pull up the carriage.
Where are you going?
There's a knot in my chest.
I need a walk outside.
What exactly is it with you?
Do you know what you were saying?
How could you recklessly forsake your life like that?
Is it your belief that I am unable to protect you,
Or do you simply think
That I would never decline your requests?
That's not what I meant.
Then what did you mean?
Let me ask you again.
Would you ever dare
Ask Gao Ran the same question?
Gao Ran?
Pull up the carriage!
Your Excellency.
Your Excellency!
Your...
♪ Tear the dark night apart ♪
♪ Turn my whole heart ♪
♪ Into an ever-burning bright lamp light ♪
♪ Live up to every year ♪
♪ With fiery passion ♪
♪ Only one promise remains ♪
♪ No time can tear us far apart ♪
♪ It becomes an eternal old tale ♪
♪ As mountains and seas change over time ♪
♪ He keeps this memory close ♪
♪ As long as the heart's light remains ♪
♪ There won't be loneliness ♪
He's really running away so fast.
Lady Fan Yun,
Won't you go up to check on the governor?
His Excellency is riding alone,
Rejecting any companions.
Forget it.
Since he wants to go horse riding,
Just let him do it.
Do you really have so much confidence in his riding skills?
Not in his riding skills,
But in the sun.
With such intense sun,
Let's see how long he can last.
Your Excellency?
Your Excellency.
Your Excellency,
Get back onto the carriage with me,
Will you?
Please stop being mad.
Listen, Your Excellency,
It's so cool inside the carriage.
Chilly breezes keep blowing.
It's really cool in there.
Go back with me, alright?
You...
Look, you're too tired to ride the horse anymore.
Just stop forcing yourself.
Let's get back onto...
I can do some more horse riding.
No, you really can't.
Don't do it again, or you'll get sunstroke,
Your Excellency.
The governor has really gotten sunstroke.
-Hurry! -Your Excellency.
Get His Excellency back onto the carraige.
I'm all fine!
I can walk on my own.
Just listen to me.
Get back onto the carriage now.
I am fine.
I can ride the horse some more.
Alright, Your Excellency.
Just quit all that horse riding,
And stop being mad.
I said I am fine.
Don't touch me.
Sorry, I was wrong.
What did you just say?
I said...
I said this is the Hegu acupoint.
You'll feel better when I press it.
It can also relieve your dizziness.
Stop with the massage now.
Tell me.
How were you wrong?
I was wrong
For neglecting your feelings.
And then?
It's just that sometimes,
I feel a strong urge to carry out the decision
I made on the spur of the moment.
Everyone and everything
Must make way for it.
After some serious thinking,
I realized that my way of doing things
Is essentially the same as Lord Zheng's, isn't it?
The loss resulting from hurting those around me
In the pursuit of certain results
Outweighs the gains.
I'm finished.
You did make a good point,
And rub the acupoint right.
I have something to say to you, too.
I also think I was wrong.
Indeed, I overreacted earlier in the day.
I certainly understood
What you were talking about.
But I couldn't refute your argument at all.
That was exactly why I left in a huff.
I was actually angry at myself.
Anyway,
I'll make sure things never
Reach the worst case you mentioned.
Fan Yun is precious.
So are the people's lives.
I will definitely take care of both
And try my best to safeguard everyone.
Do you trust me?
Yes, I trust you.
Be careful.
Brother, be quick.
I'm going in first.
Sure.
Lord Tian Xing,
Someone had me deliver this to you.
How did you get this?
Stop staring at it. Come eat.
Fuel up, so you'll have the energy to keep looking at it.
Sure.
You said yes even to that.
Is the word "no"
Even in your vocabulary?
Oh, kiddo, I'm afraid
You'll suffer a big loss in the future.
I'm not a kid anymore.
That's true.
You're the top scholar of the Nine Cities.
The cook does the most work.
So you should be the first one to eat.
Chestnuts?
Anything wrong?
It's an unusual filling to find in steamed buns.
Where did you learn this recipe?
I heard from Madam Zhu Luan
That this is the only kind of steamed bun
You'd eat since her family took you in.
This recipe is exclusive to my hometown.
When I was little,
My sister used to make buns like this for me.
But it's been a long time
Since I last saw her.
Family is not limited
To blood relatives.
The family you find
Later in life is also a gift from heaven.
The dead are gone.
Perhaps we didn't get a chance to cherish them.
Nonetheless,
There are still people around us.
Hold them dearly, so we won't have any regrets.
All you do is nod.
God knows if you truly understand what I said.
They're coming this way!
Are Lady Fan Yun and others here yet?
They're already on the way.
Zhu Luan,
Are you saying that woman from Ling'an
Is on her way here now?
Yes, absolutely true.
What should we do then?
What's wrong?
Isn't this good news?
Miss Suyin,
Do you think
Our conditions
Will worsen
When this woman arrives?
How could that be?
Lady Fan Yun is coming here to help us.
Isn't it true that we won't be cured
Unless she dies?
-That's right. -She has to die,
Or we'll be the ones to die!
"Fan Yun's death
Cures the disease."
Since when do you believe that sort of nonsense?
Recently, the Spirit Immortal Sect has been spreading a message
Everywhere that only by offering that woman from Ling'an
As a sacrifice can the Spirit Immortal be appeased.
Yes, she has to be offered as a sacrifice.
Right. She must die, or we won't live.
Yeah.
It's fine for others to say that.
But it's wrong for us to buy that nonsense.
Lord Tian Xing has been taking care of each of you
And improving your conditions these days
So that you can all make it till Lady Fan Yun
Arrives with a cure, right?
At first, I didn't believe that saying.
But soon, everyone began talking about it.
-Yes. -Right.
Seeing is believing. What you've heard could be rumors.
Don't blindly follow what others say.
By the time you truly meet Lady Fan Yun,
You'll know she's nothing like the rumors.
There are human lives at stake. We'd better be cautious.
Please hang in there, everyone.
Lady Fan Yun is a very wise woman
With a kind heart.
She has found the real cure for the disease,
And is on her way to save your lives.
How long will it take?
Don't believe her. We can't believe her.
-Don't buy that crap. -Don't believe it.
There's no food left at home.
[Eight years ago, winter]
He has to die, or all of us will.
Father,
Don't do this.
Please don't hurt him!
Get out of my way!
Sister...
I'll take you away.
Back off.
Or I'll kill you both!
[Yong City]
The governor has arrived.
Open the gate immediately!
Your Excellency,
They won't open the gate.
Nobody showed up either.
Shout again.
The governor is here in person.
Why not open the gate?
Where are the gate commander?
Guards,
Break the gate.
Protect His Excellency!
How dare you!
The governor is right here.
Are you attempting a revolt?
A fierce plague is raging through Yong City.
By order of the gate commander, all entry and exit are banned.
The governor is right behind me.
Open the gate now!
Don't waste time talking to them.
In my opinion, that woman must be trying
To sneak into the city by using His Excellency as an excuse.
We must not let her enter the city!
H-Hold on!
Put your weapons down!
Put them down now!
Weapons down, now!
That really is the governor!
I knew Ling'an City
Would never give up on us!
Your Excellency, forgive me for being derelict.
I'm heading down to greet Your Excellency now!
Take this man down right away!
-Yes. -We can't let them in!
Your Excellency!
The gate commander has been bewitched.
Quick! Remember not to look into that woman's eyes!
Why are you doing this?
Why is this happening?
The governor and Lady Fan are here to help us!
They're here to treat our illness!
What are you doing?
-She must not enter the city! -She must not enter the city!
You are exactly the cause of the illness!
Everything was fine in the past few years.
All of a sudden, you, a woman, became an official.
So heaven descended punishment on us!
You are the very culprit of this pestilence!
Today,
Between me and Fan Yun,
Only one will live!
I'd rather lose my life here right now
Than contract the disease and die from it!
I shall at least
Avenge my wife and daughter!
-Right! -Yes!
-We want revenge! -Revenge!
I know a shortcut to the city gate.
Come with me.
Suyin, what's the matter?
Zhu Luan, you go without me.
Do whatever you can
To help Lady Fan Yun enter the city.
Tian Xing and I need to attend to other things.
Consider it done.
Zhu Luan!
Keep yourself safe.
-Revenge! -Revenge!
Dear folks,
Please calm down.
I am Qi Zheng, governor of the Nine Cities.
I come from Ling'an.
I implore you to hear me out.
Regarding the current plague,
All the renowned physicians in Ling'an
Have done some analysis
And reached a conclusion.
The plague is not
Anyone's fault,
But an act of nature.
How is that possible?
I don't buy it.
Given that, I do not wish
The blame of it to be laid to anyone.
Neither do I wish to sit back in Ling'an City,
Watching my people collapse one by one
And lose their homes and family.
This is why I am here today.
I brought reinforcements
To stand on the same front as you.
I understand how you must feel right now.
You're feeling torn up inside.
Am I right?
Don't believe him.
Don't buy a word he says.
I've also heard the rumors
Regarding Lady Fan Yun,
Who's right beside me now.
Despite imminent danger,
Lady Fan Yun still
Voluntarily came here,
Exactly in the hope of rendering as much help to you as possible.
Therefore,
I plead with each of you
To give me
And Lady Fan Yun
A chance.
-Go away! -Scram!
-She must not enter the city! -She's not allowed in!
-Go away! -Go away!
-We won't let her in! -She's not allowed in!
-Scram! -Go away!
-She's not getting into the city! -We won't let her in!
Don't hurt her!
Zhu Luan,
It's dangerous here.
Go home now.
Who sent you here?
Go home right away!
Do I still have a home to go to?
My dad already passed.
My mom is stricken by the disease.
Suyin said
Lady Fan Yun
-came here to help us. -Suyin?
-Why must you turn her away? -It's her.
I don't want to lose my mom.
This gentleman here said it correctly.
If Lady Fan Yun really were the culprit,
Why would she even come here?
Folks of Yong City,
I am Fan Yun.
Please allow me to say a few words.
If the plague can be ended by my death,
I'll lay down my life.
But I refuse to be killed by rumors,
Because there are many causes
Awaiting me to take up.
Besides,
Even if I die,
None of the problems will go away.
That will only add one more life to the death toll
Of the plague at most.
If
You want the illness to be fixed,
You might as well take a gamble
And let us enter the city so we can give it a try.
The governor and I are
Genuinely hoping to help you.
Therefore, today, we are determined
To entern Yong City.
-No! You're not allowed in! -We won't let you in!
Let me through. Let me through!
Let me through!
You scoundrels,
Why gather here and yell?
The city is in massive chaos now.
It's enough that you're not there to help.
How can you pick up a fight here at a time like this?
Ma'am, ma'am!
They won't let these people in. Neither will he!
Why turn them away?
Didn't you hear what Suyin said?
These people came here to cure our illness.
They're here to treat the illness.
Is it true? They're here to treat us?
Lord Tian Xing, who had arrived earlier than we did,
Has already given a clear diagnosis regarding your illness.
It is a disease named
"malaria."
There are records about it
In ancient medical books,
Saying that sweet wormwood,
To some extent, can relieve your symptoms.
When that happens,
You won't have to resort to bloodletting or drinking water
With talisman ashes anymore,
And to resign yourselves to fate.
♪ Our hearts reach for the morning glow ♪
♪ Our dreams fear no barren land below ♪
♪ What does it matter if we fly against the wind? ♪
You don't have to take my word.
But do take theirs.
These are renowned physicians from Ling'an.
♪ We vow to live up to our youthful prime ♪
Their profound medical knowledge is unmatched,
♪ To walk alongside ordinary folks alike ♪
And their medical skills unparalleled.
The situation can't get any worse than it is now.
♪ Sharing the same ray of light ♪
As of this moment, there is still a glimmer of hope.
We are not giving up.
♪ Fear no strange land nor dim twilight ♪
And you must not give up either.
I don't care.
Whoever
♪ All for this boundless world ♪
Can cure my son
Will earn my trust.
You shout about fighting and killing all day long.
♪ To wear a robe of radiant glory ♪
Don't you think there are too many deaths already?
What are you waiting for?
Hurry and make way for them!
♪ Face the light, gaze ahead with brave eyes ♪
Move! Get a move on!
-My wife is right. -Let them through!
Come on, make way for them!
-Move! -Don't block the way!
♪ Let all darkness and hurt step aside ♪
♪ It's unstoppable ♪
♪ Chase the light, let our dreams unfold wide ♪
♪ With bold resolve, ignite plain faith ♪
♪ Light them up ♪
♪ Let all wind and frost of days gone by ♪
♪ Turn to countless beams of light within my eye ♪
♪ Await the sight of you ♪
What is your name?
Zhu Luan.
My name is Fan Yun.
Don't worry.
This gentleman and I
Will definitely cure your mother.
Suyin?
Get off the horse!
-Get down here! -Why are you...
What are you doing here?
That should be my question for you.
You've been acting strange these past few days.
Now, as Lady Fan Yun finally arrived,
You're actually trying to leave alone.
What is it that you're planning to do?
I have some issues to attend to.
Fine.
You just won't tell the truth.
Suyin,
You...
Forget about leaving town then.
Since I came to Yong City,
There has been a series of coincidental happenings
Leading me think
That my sister is still alive.
Then the Spirit Immortal Sect sent me a letter,
Claiming to have her in their hands.
They asked me to trade Lady Fan Yun for her.
But I can't betray Lady Fan Yun.
I...
I'm really out of options.
Tian Xing, do we count
As friends who have gone through hick and thin together?
Yes.
Why did you suddenly ask about that?
Now that we're friends,
Why didn't you tell me you got caught in a dilemma?
You're not a good friend at all.
Suyin,
Listen to me
And go back.
If you are to leave, I'll leave with you.
Let's go!
Neither of you are going anywhere!
Move this box over there!
-Lift it up. -Come help here.
Let me through.
Officers,
Please check the surrounding areas
To make sure
There is mugwort placed
On every household's doors and windows to deter
Mosquitoes and other insects.
-Yes. -Yes.
Yun,
Thank you
For coming to our rescue for real.
I should be the one thanking you.
Don't take what people said
To heart.
They were just too scared.
You mentioned about Suyin just now, didn't you?
Could you take me to her?
Suyin and Brother Tian Xing were supposed
To go with me to the city gate
To greet you.
But Suyin suddenly said
That they had things to attend to,
So she told me to go without them.
Some things to attend to?
Do you know
What she referred to?
There are many patients in Yong City now.
Maybe an emergency rose in a household,
So they had to rush there.
How about I go look for them?
It's too dangerous for you to do that alone.
How about this?
I'll have Mr. Gao Ran bring a team
To go with you
And protect you.
What do you think?
You are new to Yong City.
I'm sure you have many things to do.
The Guardian Corps should stay in the city
To maintain order.
When it comes to looking for someone,
Nobody here is more familiar with
The surrounding areas than I am.
Do you not trust me?
I trust you.
The task of searching for them
Lies on your shoulders then.
Boss,
The way you're dressed...
I don't want to wear that fake beard.
Nobody knows me in Yong City anyway.
Then why did you change your outfit?
I'm from Juyun Pavilion after all.
Don't you have anything serious to talk to me about?
Boss,
Ms. Fan already successfully entered the city.
I came to Yong City to make money.
The more chaotic a place is, the more business opportunities there are.
Whatever you say.
But, Boss,
What are you going to tell Lord Zheng?
I've already given an explanation to my grandfather.
I told him I would stay at Ning'an Temple
For a month to fast and pray for Yong City, given the plague there.
But I did leave in a hurry.
I could only let Wu keep an eye on things at home.
Then let's enter the city now.
Well, it doesn't harm
To make extra provisions for Fan Yun.
Have our people keep a close watch
On the situation in Yong City.
If supplies fall short
Or danger appears,
Back her up immediately.
But if nothing goes wrong,
There's no need to meet with her.
Aren't we...
Here to make money?
Everyone, get up.
Get ready to set out.
Your Excellency,
E-everyone stands ready now.
Good.
Everyone,
This official beside me, Lady Fan Yun,
Is the designated disease control officer.
Her official token carries the same authority as I do.
All subsequent arrangements
Will be handled by Lady Fan Yun.
All of you must fully cooperate with her.
If any problems occur,
I'll take responsibility.
Fan Yun.
Gate Commander,
How are the deceased patients' bodies taken care of?
Lady Fan Yun,
The bodies are currently
Kept in the morgue outside the city.
Haven't they been properly buried?
The bodies are piling up,
While we are increasingly short-handed.
There is really nothing much we can do.
This isn't right.
With the disease raging and bodies everywhere,
Such a foul environment will become
A breading ground for new plagues.
In that case,
New crises will arise before this one is solved.
Then...
What can we do now?
I remember back in Ling'an,
Lord Jiang ordered the bodies to be burned.
Burn the bodies?
We the people of Yong City
Live off the land.
We believe that the dead should be properly buried for eternal peace.
Although the deceased
Did die of the plague,
They still...
The dead deserve respect.
Burning their bodies
Would be an act of utter disrespect toward them.
Their families
Will definitely oppose that.
Right now, aren't the living
More important?
I...
How should I...
Explain this to their families?
Actually,
There are other options
Than burning dead bodies.
A-Any other way will do
As long as the bodies won't be burned.
I think I've read
In a medical book
That lime
Can eliminate the infectiousness of dead bodies.
How about this?
We'll fill the coffins and cover the dead
With lime.
In the end,
We bury them together.
This way,
All problems will be solved,
And people won't be upset.
I-It
Really is a feasible paln.
Can it be done within three days?
Three days?
Well...
I'm afraid that we're...
Short of hands.
Your people
And the Guardian Corps
Can work in three shifts in the morning, noon, and night.
How about that?
It'll work.
It'll surely work!
Lord Gao,
What do you think?
I'll do as you commanded.
Everyone,
I also need you
To split into two teams.
One team will establish
A fixed treatment point in the clinic.
The other team
Will go door-to-door to treat patients
And to help
Those who are too weak to go out.
Lady Fan,
If we all go out to treat patients,
Then who will be responsible for
Preparing sweet wormwood?
There is a huge demand for medicine now.
It also takes a long time to prepare it.
Besides,
We don't have enough cooking vessels.
All you need to do is try your best to treat the patients.
As for the rest,
I will figure it out.
-Yes. -Yes.
Would you...
Come assist me?
Lady Fan Yun,
Are...
Are we able to provide any help?
All we know to do
Is wash clothes, cook meals,
And sew.
Can we really be trusted
With such an important task?
Don't worry.
I have all the manuals of preparing
The medicine here.
After lunch,
She who would like to assist me
May come meet me here.
I'll guide you through the process.
What's more,
I hope you will never
Sell yourselves short again.
Washing clothes and cooking meals
Are never easy tasks.
The fact that you can manage a household well
Means you're capable of doing anything.
Then, how about...
We give it a try?
-Let's give it a try. -We'll give it a try.
We'd love to give it a try.
When necessary,
A woman's strength
Is enough to take charge.
I think it's more than that.
Let go of me!
Where is my sister?
Where is she?
Chief, we've brought them here.
Where is my sister?
Where is she?
Is that the devil girl Fan Yun?
No, she isn't.
Hand over Tian Xing's sister now.
Or I'll kill myself before you can have your way!
How dare you threaten our chief?
So what if I did?
Chief,
The real Fan Yun just entered the city.
She's treating patient in the clinic now.
We caught the wrong girl.
Lock her up.
-Where is my sister? -Move!
Lady Fan Yun,
Am I doing it right?
When you pound herbs,
It'll be better
If you do this.
Got it.
-Go! -Go there!
No, I won't!
Go, hurry!
I won't go. I won't!
I won't go!
See, I told you I wouldn't come,
Yet you forced me to.
Very good.
All of you are doing great.
Chunxiu!
Why are you here?
What are you doing here?
Don't you see I'm preparing medicine here?
But why?
Stop it.
Come home with me now.
I'm hungry.
I need you to cook for me.
They are short-handed,
So I came to help.
Just go home and find something to eat.
What help can you offer?
They are preparing medicine here.
Who knows if it's poisonous?
Plus,
Listen up, fellas,
Don't just put medicine in your mouths.
Your lives are valuable.
What nonsense are you making now?
I can assure you, everyone,
That the medicine
Has been tested by us.
You're talking nonsense.
How about this?
Try the medicine once for today.
If it doesn't work,
Don't come back tomorrow.
"For one day"?
"Tomorrow"?
If this medicine is toxic,
One bite of it is enough to kill.
-Yes. -Exactly!
Ms. Fan Yun,
Thanks for your kind offer.
But we'd rather
Drink the Spirit Immortal Water as usual.
At least it won't kill.
What do you say, fellas?
-Agreed. -Yes!
Fine!
I'll taste the medicine first.
Are you all reassured now?
What he drank was water.
You...
What's wrong with you?
Why did you drink that?
Just because he drank it, does it mean you should too?
What he drank was water!
Why don't you drink one more bowl of it?
I'd like to see you drink one more bowl of it.
Enough! When can you stop this kerfuffle?
Time to leave.
Let's go.
Chunxiu,
Even my mother has never slapped me in the face.
Go home now!
Stop making a fool of yourself here.
I'm telling you,
If our son doesn't get treatment in time,
I'll make you pay. You heard me?
Silly kid.
Sorry, sorry.
A grown man though he is, he surely acts like a child.
I'm sorry for that.
You all saw it, didn't you?
There's definitely no problem with the medicine.
Please line up.
Everyone will get a portion.
I didn't expect this women from Yong City
To be quite capable.
You just realized that?
Here, sir, hold it tight.
Thank you.
Little one,
Come on.
Get the medicine and go home.
What's wrong?
Is there anyone else at home?
How many of them?
-Three. -Got it.
Take them all.
Free of charge.
Go home now.
Off you go.
Everyone, line up. Don't rush.
There's enough for everyone.
Here you are.
I wonder what kind of filling
Lady Fan Yun and the others like.
Son!
Come taste this. It's delicious.
My son!
What happened to you, my son?
Son, wake up.
I'm scared for you, Son!
Son!
Someone come help my son!
I need help!
Why didn't
Chunxiu come to prepare medicine today?
The progress will be even slower this way.
Indeed.
Why is it so quiet today?
Gao Ran.
Your Excellency, Lady Fan Yun,
Some people reported to the authorities
That a large number of malaria-infected bodies
Were found unrecorded in the mass grave outside the city.
Early this morning,
The people hurried to the south of the city
For unknown reasons.
Let's go take a look.
Yes.